hezbollah's leader Hassan Nala has
called Tuesday's assassination of a
senior Hamas official flagrant Israeli
aggression on Beirut Salah Al aruri was
killed in a drone strike in the Lebanese
Capital along with six other Hamas
members Israel has not acknowledged
responsibility for the strike but says
all Hamas leaders are targets following
the October 7th attack theala also
offered his condolences to Hamas
following the killing of Salah
alri
we offer our congratulations and
condolences in our brother the great
Commander Deputy head of the Hamas
movement political Bureau as well as his
companions the kadr and the commanders
of Hamas who fell as Mur yesterday as a
result of a blatant Israeli aggression
against Beirut Southern
suburb on the same night where
where andj AB also fell as
martys I offer my condolences to my
brother
is and to all of our companions in the
Hamas leadership the Alam leadership and
Palestinian resistance factions as well
as the Palestinian people I offer my
condolences to Noble family and to the
noble families of all the Martyr who
were with him and fell with him I offer
to them my condolences and my
congratulations and may God grant them
patience and fortitude and they have
shown
that Let's cross over to Z our
correspondent in Beirut who is also
listening in to Hassan Nala's speech one
minute 20 1 hour 20 um a minute speech
and address address many issues uh that
pertain to hezb itself but it was really
at the end of uh his presentation that
he really sort of talked about uh the
situation uh in Gaza as well as the
attack uh in Beirut that has riled
Hezbollah and basically allowed him to
quite clearly say that Hezbollah will
retaliate on this attack on
Beirut well yes he said that this crime
will not go unpunished the assassination
of hamas's second in command Salah aruri
who was killed in hezbollah's stronghold
but at the same time it was a very
delicate balancing act that Hassan
nasah first of all he talked about the
front in southern Lebanon Hezbollah is
engaged in a low intensity conflict with
the Israeli Army along that border he is
saying that it will continue both sides
really have been uh calculating their
attacks ensuring that it doesn't become
or trigger a full-blown conflict he's
saying that that that will continue but
at the same time he's saying that that
doesn't mean Hezbollah is not ready for
war and that Israel if Israel decides to
launch a full-scale offensive Hezbollah
will fight back with its full military
capabilities and threatening the
Israelis that it they will pay a a heavy
price but Hezbollah nalah also kept
talking about strategic national uh
considerations that each of the
so-called resistance groups in this AIS
of resistance across the region have to
take into account and in Lebanon Hassan
Nala knows that Israel can destroy this
country Israeli ministers have said that
they will level Beirut that they will
level the southern suburbs of beu where
half a million people live yes it's
known as a Hezbollah stronghold where
Hezbollah has bases and offices but it
is also a residential neighborhood where
half a million people live where will
these people go so in many ways his
hands are tied but at the same time uh
reiterating that Hezbollah is not afraid
of war and that if it if it comes to
that it is ready to wage a
confrontation Zena Hass nasala may not
be afraid of War but Lebanon might be as
a as a country I mean what has the
government said if anything at all
they've remained pre-s silent so
far well the Lebanese prime minister has
been holding contacts with the Western
governments the United States France
envoys have been uh visiting Beirut
shuttling between Israel and Lebanon to
try to diffuse tensions but at the end
of the day Hezbollah is stronger than
the state hezbollah's Army is stronger
than the Lebanese Army Hezbollah takes
decisions on its own and it has gained
opponents and in this country who say
that it is not up to the group to decide
whether whether or not you know Lebanon
will be dragged into war so a lot of
people will be in Lebanon will be
relieved that at least on hezbollah's
part there is no intention uh to trigger
a wider conflict or expand the conflict
that is now confined and contained to
the Border area but at the same time
many people here feel that Israel is
trying to drag Hezbollah to war and it
is something that nasala was boasting
about that Israel was not able to
restore security and this is you know a
major blow to the Israelis if you think
about it tens of thousands of Israelis
cannot return to their homes in Northern
Israel or in southern Israel so he said
that that that is one of the
achievements that the group has achieved
um you know since engaging in Conflict
to try to help relieve its Ally Hamas in
Gaza so Hezbollah promising a response
it didn't give any further details but
also uh we assure assuring in one way or
the other that for the time being the
actions and the military operations in
the South will remain calculated unless
Israel changes the
situation Zen there for in Barett thanks
very much for the update there Z Let's
cross over to Tel Aviv now as SRA kyat
is also standing by and SRA I have to
say I can't believe that uh Israeli
officials weren't watching that Nala
speech they would have been watching
with great
detail
I'm sure they were watching it with
great detail we haven't had reaction but
in the same way we didn't actually hear
any claims official claims from them for
carrying out that assassination
onuri in Lebanon yesterday um now what
we do know is that uh
interestingly uh the Israeli Army Chief
has been visiting those Northern
commands on that border with Lebanon and
saying that that they are on high alert
we've known that uh since overnight when
we also heard it from the military
spokesman Daniel hagari saying that they
are ready for any possible scenario how
this will be taken here it's yet to be
seen however uh what we do know is that
Israel has said time and time again that
that all of those Hamas leaders uh will
be killed they'll go after them no
matter where they are not just in the
Gaza Strip but any other country as well
they said that it's not just a case of
getting rid of Hamas in the Gaza Strip
not just militarily but also politically
they want Hamas to not exist and that it
wouldn't be able to function ever again
or to ever carry out such an attack and
of course they're keeping their eyes
very closely on Hezbollah because
Hezbollah the Iranian B group has been
launching attacks every single day since
this War Began on those Northern borders
towns all along from West all the way to
the east uh and said that they will
continue to do so as long as the war in
Gaza continues Sara in terms of your
analysis about the troop movements in
and out of Gaza the reservist being
rested before they are redeployed is
there going to be a recalibration do you
think now by the Israeli government as
to how many Gob back potentially into
Gaza and how many might be redeployed
North I mean it it's now a case of a a
very serious conversation most probably
within the war cabinet about where they
deploy their
strength well a discussion that was
meant to be held yesterday as to what
happens what they call the day after the
war in Gaza was actually postponed as
the news uh came out about uh salahi um
now we know that's been postponed
supposedly until Thursday again it was
already postponed from last week after
some of those in the ministry were up in
arms about not being included in that
discussion but away from that the
redeployment of troops them coming out
they were the reasons given was because
of fatigue needing to give some of them
rest it doesn't necessarily mean that
that's because they're redeploying them
to the north uh prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu a few days ago in his
statement uh sent out a stark warning to
Iran and to the Iranian back group
groups including hisbah as well as other
countries saying that they will ensure
if they have to fight back militarily
they will and that if diplomatic efforts
don't work they will consider that tens
of thousands of those troops have been
lining that border for weeks uh they are
also have been training in a situation
where an attack could happen now
hasbalah we know that they've been
carrying out those attacks every single
day whether they will step that up here
we don't know but it could potentially
not necessarily be be on a full scale uh
War but it could be potentially taken
out uh in attacks elsewhere not just in
Israel but in other countries have we as
we have seen uh previously in the past
saky there for us in Tel Aviv thank you